The principal DNS resource record types
=======================================

    +------------+----------------------------------------------+--------------------------------------------------+
    |   Type     |                   Meaning                    |                      Value                       |
    +------------+----------------------------------------------+--------------------------------------------------+
    |  SOA       | Start of authority                           | Parameters for this zone                         |
    |  A         | IPv4 address of a host                       | 32-Bit integer                                   |
    |  AAAA      | IPv6 address of a host                       | 128-Bit integer                                  |
    |  MX        | Mail exchange                                | Priority, domain willing to accept email         |
    |  NS        | Name server                                  | Name of a server for this domain                 |
    |  CNAME     | Canonical name                               | Domain name                                      |
    |  PTR       | Pointer                                      | Alias for an IP address                          |
    |  SPF       | Sender policy framework                      | Text encoding of mai sending policy              |
    |  SRV       | Service                                      | Host that provides it                            |
    |  TXT       | Text                                         | Descriptive ASCII text                           |
    +------------+----------------------------------------------+--------------------------------------------------+

An SOA record provides the name of the primary source of information
about the name server’s zone (described below), the email address of
its administrator, a unique serial number, and various flags and
timeouts.

The most important record type is the A (Address) record. It holds a
32-bit IPv4 address of an interface for some host. The corresponding
AAAA, or ‘‘quad A,’’ record holds a 128-bit IPv6 address. Every
Internet host must have at least one IP address so that other machines
can communicate with it. Some hosts have two or more network
interfaces, in which case they will have two or more type A or AAAA
resource records. Consequently, DNS can return multiple addresses for
a single name.

A common record type is the MX record. It specifies the name of the
host prepared to accept email for the specified domain.

Another important record type is the NS record. It specifies a name
server for the domain or subdomain. This is a host that has a copy of
the database for a domain. It is used as part of the process to look
up names.

CNAME records allow aliases to be created.

Like CNAME, PTR points to another name. However, unlike CNAME, which
is really just a macro definition (i.e., a mechanism to replace one
string by another), PTR is a regular DNS data type whose
interpretation depends on the context in which it is found. In
practice, it is nearly always used to associate a name with an IP
address to allow lookups of the IP address and return the name of the
corresponding machine. These are called reverse lookups.

SRV is a newer type of record that allows a host to be identified for
a given service in a domain.

SPF is also a newer type of record. It lets a domain encode
information about what machines in the domain will send mail to the
rest of the Internet. This helps receiving machines check that mail is
valid.

TXT records were originally provided to allow domains to identify
themselves in arbitrary ways. Nowadays, they usually encode
machinereadable information, typically the SPF information.
