.TH MYAPP 1
.SH NAME
Myapp \- A simple demonstration application that does very little.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B myapp
[\-option ...]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
\fImyapp\fP is a complete application that does nothing usefull.
.PP
It was written for demonstration purposes.
.SH OPTIONS
.PP
It doesn't have any, but let's pretend, to make this template complete:
.TP
.BI \-option
I there was an option, it would not be -option.
.SH RESOURCES
.PP
myapp uses almost no resources.
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
The program shouldn't output anything, so if you find it doing so there's
probably something wrong. The return value is zero.
.SH SEE ALSO
The only other program we know with this little functionality is the
ubiguitous hello world application.
.SH COPYRIGHT
myapp is Copyright (c) 2007 Wiley Publishing, Inc.
This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify
it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by
the Free Software Foundation; either version of 2 of the License, or
(at your option) any later version.
but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE. See the
GNU General Public License for more details.
You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License
along with this program; if not; write to the Free Software
Foundation, Inc., 59 Temple Place, Suite 330, Boston, MA 0211111307 USA.
.SH BUGS
There probably are some, but we don't know what they are yet.
.SH AUTHORS
Neil Matthew and Rick Stones
